Project Report: Information Retrieval Engine

Introduction:
1) As part of the project, an Information Retrieval (IR) engine is to be built that makes forward and inverted indices from a document collection. 
2) The IR engine will ingest documents and provide a means to index and retrieve those documents based on the search terms provided to the user.
3) The primary components are ForwardIndex, InvertedIndex, TextParser, Retriever, and Main.



Design and Implementation:

Forward Index:

1) The ForwardIndex class keeps a mapping of document IDs to word frequencies. 
2) Each document is associated with a unique identification number and stores the words in that document along with their frequencies.
3) Method addDocument adds a document to the forward index. 
4) The method saveToFile saves the index to a file.

Inverted Index:

1)The InvertedIndex class keeps a mapping of words to document ids and frequencies of that word in the document.
2) This index allows efficient retrieval of documents that include specific terms.
3)The method addDocument adds a document to the inverted index. 
4)The method saveToFile saves the index to a file. 
5)The method search retrieves documents and frequencies for a given term.

Retrieval:

1)The Retriever class uses the inverted index to retrieve documents based on search terms. 
2)The method retrieve returns a map of the document ID and frequency of the document for that specific search term.

Main Class:
1)The Main class orchestrates the entire process, from loading stop words, parsing documents, and building the indices.
2)The program reads the documents from the specified folder, processes them, and builds the forward of inverted index. 
3)The program prompts the user for a search term and displays the documents and their frequencies for the search term.


Steps of Execution

Loading Stop Words: 
1) Stop words are loaded from the file (stopwordlist.txt) into a set.
2) Initializing Components: The Porter stemmer and the text parser are initialized. 
3) The forward and inverted indices are initialized.
4) Processing Documents: The documents are read from the directory './documents'.
5) Each document is parsed to extract the words that are added to the forward and inverted indices.
6) Saving Indices: The indices are saved to files - forward_index.txt for forward index and inverted_index.txt for inverted index.
7) Search: The program prompts the user for a search term. 
8) The retriever will search the inverted index ((which is the index for retrieval) for the search term and display the results.

